
Mark the letter A, B, C, or D on your answer sheet to indicate the sentence that best combines each pair of sentences in the following questions.
Câu 1. Marie didn't turn up at John's birthday party. I feel so sorry for that.
     A. It's a shame Marie had turned up at John's birthday party.
     B. If only Marie turned up at John's birthday party.
     C. I wish Marie had turned up at John's birthday party.
     D. I wished Marie wouldn't turn up at John's birthday party.

Câu 2. Seth informed us of his retirement from the company. He did it when arriving at the meeting.
     A. Only after his retiring from the company did Seth tell us about his arrival at the meeting.
     B. Hardly had Seth notified us of his retiring from the company when he arrived at the meeting.
     C. No sooner had Seth arrived at the meeting than we were told about his leaving the company.
     D. Not until Seth said to us that he would leave the company did he turn up at the meeting.

Read the following passage and mark the letter A, B, C, or D on your answer sheet to indicate the correct answer to each of the questions.
People are living longer and, in some parts of the world, healthier lives. This represents one of the crowning achievements of the last century, but also a significant challenge. Longer lives must be planned for. Societal aging may affect economic growth and lead to many other issues, including the sustainability of families, the ability of states and communities to provide resources for older citizens, and international relations. The Global Burden of Disease, a study conducted by the World Health Organization, predicts a very large increase in age-related chronic disease in all regions of the world. Dealing with this will be a significant challenge for all countries’ health services.
Population aging is driven by declines in fertility and improvements in health and longevity. In more developed countries, falling fertility beginning in the early 1900’s has resulted in current levels being below the population replacement rate of two live births per woman. Perhaps the most surprising demographic development of the past 20 years has been the pace of fertility decline in many less developed countries. In 2006, for example, the total fertility rate was at or below the replacement rate in 44 less developed countries.
One central issue for policymakers in regard to pension funds is the relationship between the official retirement age and actual retirement age. Over several decades in the latter part of the 20th century, many of the more developed nations lowered the official age at which people become fully entitled to public pension benefits. This was propelled by general economic conditions, changes in welfare philosophy, and private pension trends. Despite the recent trend toward increased workforce participation at older ages, a significant gap between official and actual ages of retirement persists. This trend is emerging in rapidly aging developing countries as well. Many countries already have taken steps towards much-needed reform of their old-age social insurance programs. One common reform has been to raise the age at which workers are eligible for full public pension benefits. Another strategy for bolstering economic security for older people has been to increase the contributions by workers. Other measures to enhance income for older people include new financial instruments for private savings, tax incentives for individual retirement savings, and supplemental occupational pension plans.

Câu 3. As mentioned in the first paragraph, the following aspects will be influenced by the aging in the society, EXCEPT_______.
     A. technology achievements	     B. the stable progress of families
     C. medical care	     D. social welfare

Câu 4. What does the word "This" in paragraph 3 refer to?
     A. the reduction of the official age entirely pensioned
     B. public pension benefits
     C. central issue
     D. the relationship between the official retirement age and actual retirement age

Câu 5. The word "incentives" in paragraph 3 is closest in meaning to_______.
     A. blocks	     B. obstacles
     C. impediments	     D. stimuluses
     C. impediments	     D. stimuluses